# mccg
Repository for the Monash computational chemistry group

# Cloning
If cloning this repository, use git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/tommason14/mccg, as qcp is added as a submodule from another repository

# automating workflows

## qcp - Quantum Chemical Processor
Automate processes such as 
- creating input and job files
- recursive parsing of log files
- recursive submission of jobs, deletion of queued jobs
- Finding bond distances of xyz files

Currently installed on Raijin, Magnus, Monarch, Massive and Stampede. Implemented for GAMESS, PSI4 and Gaussian calculations

## PHMD- generation of LAMMPS input files
Scripts to generate a LAMMPS input file, along with a data file containing the appropriate force field parameters, given an xyz file with numbered atoms. Uses a python script to fill a blank data file generated by vmd, with a dictionary populated with the required force field parameters. See the readme in the folder for more details.



## view_hessian_calculation.ipynb
Takes a GAMESS log file as an input and produces an infrared spectra along with a molecule viewer to view all the vibrational modes of files generated using the FMO approach.

## gamess_to_molden.py
Parse GAMESS log files for use with [molden](http://cheminf.cmbi.ru.nl/molden/), allowing for easy viewing of geometries, convergence, frequencies and vibrational modes generated using the FMO approach (also works with non-FMO).

# useful aliases

## See how a GAMESS optimisation is running, using MP2:

> alias plotmp2="grep 'E(MP2)' | sed '/NaN/d' | tr -s [:blank:] | cut -d ' ' -f 3 | gnuplot -e \"set terminal dumb; plot '-    ' with lines notitle\""

The sed command drops lines that occur with a corrupt Hessian.

### Print the file to the screen and pipe into the alias:

> cat file.log | plotmp2

## Use FMO? No problem:

> alias plotfmo="grep 'E corr MP2(2)=' | tr -s [:blank:] | cut -d ' ' -f 10 | gnuplot -e \"set terminal dumb; plot '-' with     lines notitle\""

## Solvation models? Use this:

> alias plotpcm="grep 'EMP2+EPCM' | tr -s [:blank:] | cut -d ' ' -f 3 | gnuplot -e \"set terminal dumb; plot '-' with lines notitle\""

